:sparkles: ROSA: Support for OCM service account credentials (#5233)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-aws: docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md

# Creating a ROSA cluster

## Permissions
CAPA controller requires an API token in order to be able to provision ROSA clusters:
CAPA controller requires service account credentials to be able to provision ROSA clusters:
1. Visit [https://console.redhat.com/iam/service-accounts](https://console.redhat.com/iam/service-accounts) and create a new service account.

1. Visit [https://console.redhat.com/openshift/token](https://console.redhat.com/openshift/token) to retrieve your API authentication token

1. Create a credentials secret within the target namespace with the token to be referenced later by `ROSAControlePlane`
1. Create a new kubernetes secret with the service account credentials to be referenced later by `ROSAControlPlane`
    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic rosa-creds-secret \

>       --from-literal=ocmToken='eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsI....' \

Reviewer: ocmToken still valid to be used, keep it in the doc with **deprecation note**  so old users be aware of the migration to service-account.

      --from-literal=ocmClientId='....' \
      --from-literal=ocmClientSecret='eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsI....' \
      --from-literal=ocmApiUrl='https://api.openshift.com' 
    ```

    Alternatively, you can edit CAPA controller deployment to provide the credentials:
    ```shell
    kubectl edit deployment -n capa-system capa-controller-manager
    ```

    and add the following environment variables to the manager container:

>     ```yaml

Reviewer: Same as above, add **deprecation Note**

### Authentication using SSO offline token (DEPRECATED)
Instead of the service account credentials you can use SSO offline token, that you can specify either as a secret or specify the offline token
as an environment variable in the capa manager deployment.
1. Visit https://console.redhat.com/openshift/token to retrieve your SSO offline authentication token

1. Create a credentials secret within the target namespace with the token to be referenced later by `ROSAControlePlane`
```shell
    kubectl create secret generic rosa-creds-secret \
        --from-literal=ocmToken='eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsI....' \
    --from-literal=ocmApiUrl='https://api.openshift.com'
    ```

Alternatively, you can edit CAPA controller deployment to provide the credentials:
```shell
    kubectl edit deployment -n capa-system capa-controller-manager
```
and add the following environment variables to the manager container:
```yaml
    env:
      - name: OCM_TOKEN
        value: "<token>"
      - name: OCM_API_URL
        value: "https://api.openshift.com" # or https://api.stage.openshift.com

> ```

Reviewer: please add section , for old user how to migrate from using the offline token to service account.

# Creating a ROSA cluster

## Permissions

> ### Authentication using service account credentials

Reviewer: ROSA-HCP not ROSA

Author: I'm assuming you meant to write that comment one line below.

Not saying I cannot change it, but ...
```
$ git checkout main
$ git grep ROSA docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:# Creating a ROSA cluster
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:CAPA controller requires service account credentials to be able to provision ROSA clusters:
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:1. Create a new kubernetes secret with the service account credentials to be referenced later by `ROSAControlPlane`
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:    Note: to consume the secret without the need to reference it from your `ROSAControlPlane`, name your secret as `rosa-creds-secret` and create it in the CAPA manager namespace (usually `capa-system`)
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:1. Create a credentials secret within the target namespace with the token to be referenced later by `ROSAControlePlane`
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:Follow the guide [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ROSA/latest/userguide/getting-started-hcp.html) up until [Step 3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ROSA/latest/userguide/getting-started-hcp.html#getting-started-hcp-step-3) 
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:Once Step 3 is done, you will be ready to proceed with creating a ROSA cluster using cluster-api.
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:1. Render the cluster manifest using the ROSA cluster template:
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:1. If a credentials secret was created earlier, edit `ROSAControlPlane` to reference it:
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:    kind: ROSAControlPlane
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:    kind: ROSAControlPlane
docs/book/src/topics/rosa/creating-a-cluster.md:see [ROSAControlPlane CRD Reference](https://cluster-api-aws.sigs.k8s.io/crd/#controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta2.ROSAControlPlane) for all possible configurations.
```

Reviewer: most of our doc distinguish between ROSA (classic) and ROSA with HCP like the aws doc [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/rosa/latest/userguide/getting-started-hcp.html) so better to mention it as "ROSA-HCP" or "ROSA with HCP".

Author: Yep. As I said, I can change it. My point was that the .md document in question uses just ROSA. No HCP, no Hypershift.

Reviewer: Okay then, lets do it in another PR change all docs at once. 
Would you create an issue mentioning that we need to change ROSA to ROSA-HCP in docs so we don't forget it.

Author: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-aws/issues/5257

CAPA controller requires service account credentials to be able to provision ROSA clusters:
1. Visit [https://console.redhat.com/iam/service-accounts](https://console.redhat.com/iam/service-accounts) and create a new service account.

1. Create a new kubernetes secret with the service account credentials to be referenced later by `ROSAControlPlane`
    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic rosa-creds-secret \
      --from-literal=ocmClientId='....' \
      --from-literal=ocmClientSecret='eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsI....' \
      --from-literal=ocmApiUrl='https://api.openshift.com'
    ```

>     Note: to consume the secret without the need to reference it from your `ROSAControlPlane`, name your secret as `rosa-creds-secret` and create it in the CAPA manager namespace (usually `capa-system`):

Reviewer: remove ':'  (usually `capa-system`).

Author: Fixed.

    ```shell
    kubectl -n capa-system create secret generic rosa-creds-secret \
      --from-literal=ocmClientId='....' \
      --from-literal=ocmClientSecret='eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsI....' \
      --from-literal=ocmApiUrl='https://api.openshift.com'
    ```

### Authentication using SSO offline token (DEPRECATED)

> Instead of the service account credentials you can use SSO offline token, that you can specify either as a secret or specify the offline token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SSO offline token is been deprecated, it is recommended to use the service account as mentioned above. However, for old users you still can visit https://console.redhat.com/openshift/token to retrieve your SSO offline authentication token.
```

Author: I restructured the text a bit, but I'd rather not call any CAPI users "old". The instructions to go to consoleDot to retrieve the token are part of the text below.
